---
layout: post
title: 20150813
permalink: /post/126583197253/20150813
date: 2015-08-13 11:50:36 +0000
tumblr_url: http://pppy.tumblr.com/post/126583197253/20150813
---

Today marks the completion of a gruelling 78 hour database schema change to support multiple scores per-user-per-beatmap. Why did it take so long and what did it involve, you ask? It was an index change on the main osu!-mode scores table, rewriting 38gb of data in an asynchronous process to avoid any table-locking. While [pt-online-schema-change](https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-toolkit/2.1/pt-online-schema-change.html) makes this easy to do - and tries its best not to degrade database performance - there were still times of increased load resulting in score processing delays. I invested some time in improving the queue mechanism to ensure scores are always received (with pp awarded later) wherever possible.

Continued MySQL 5.7RC roll-out on a slave database (used for country and mod-specific rankings, as well as being the food source for [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch)). Trying to get the upgrade process as perfect as possible as I move to deploying it on the primary slave and master, hopefully next week. Also used this as an opportunity to do performance testing under standard load - quite important as the previous 5.7.x build I tested resulted in HUGE performance regressions.

Yesterday I invested some time in adding log output for the update process. The output is verbose enough to diagnose *any* update issues people may come across, and will help progress towards my ultimate goal of making a 100% fail-safe install/update process, bootstrapped inside osu!.exe itself. I'd say it's already around 99% infallible, but as long as users are reporting infinite update loops I won't be happy.

Haven't done a Q&amp;A for a while, so let's make it happen tomorrow. Ask me anything about infrastructure, databases or servers. Tweet with the #FridayQA tag so I can easily gather your questions!