---
layout: post
title: 20150824
permalink: /post/127468766658/20150824
date: 2015-08-24 10:29:50 +0000
tumblr_url: http://pppy.tumblr.com/post/127468766658/20150824
---

I somehow managed to miss more than one post last week. Let's play some more catch-up!

- Following up on the database performance lead I thought I found last Thursday: after spending Friday working through it, trying to understand what was going on &ndash; which ended with us setting up a test KVM environment to replicate DigitalOcean's &ndash; I feel like I have more questions than answers. Safe to say, KVM is adding some weird, magical, invisible overhead to MySQL.
- I spent a good portion of the weekend and today focused on osu!stream. Turned out Apple changed the way paid app contracts work causing all in-app purchases to suddenly fail! This means I need to redeploy the app. Not such a simple task when you are one year behind SDK changes (some that have seriously broken display and input subsystems). I plan on submitting an update for it this week, along with a full-fledged blog post about the future of osu!stream. Quite a touchy subject for me.
- There's some experimental code up on the new forums to make scrolling upwards in threads more pleasant... we hope. [Check it out](http://jizz.ppy.sh/forum/t/259747?end=4447874#forum-post-4447874) and leave some feedback in the comments.
- Been trying to track down the cause of some users seeing endless update loops. I  could have sworn that the updater was flawless, but alas. If you are experiencing issues with updating, make sure to get on the public slack #cuttingedge channel and highlight the fuck out of me.
- The osu!mania World Cup is ongoing. Make sure to [tune in](http://www.twitch.tv/osulive) and see how polished the tournament streaming setup is!