---
layout: post
title: 20151103
permalink: /post/132472171033/20151103
date: 2015-11-03 14:15:48 +0000
tumblr_url: http://pppy.tumblr.com/post/132472171033/20151103
---
First blog for November.. oh how time flies. Spent yesterday completely inundated with mail and accounting. Apologies for lack of updates here.

Currently working hard to get things ready for OWC while also fix performance issues with Stable40, Beta and Cutting-Edge. Made some good progress today testing with some users on public slack. Targeting the issue of single-frame stutters (lag spikes) categorised into "SwapBuffer" on the frame graph currently.

I'm basically 100% devoting myself to fix performance issues until we are 100% (and I mean 100% for all users), since it is the main thing holding stable40 back from the remaining users which have not been able to make the leap yet.

As you can see by the [stats](https://osu.ppy.sh/p/changelog), we still have over 40% of users on the fallback stream. This is far better than a few weeks ago (before I began promoting the new release), but we do have a way to go still.

Until this migration is finalised, don't expect to see too much forward progress. Yes, this means "osu!next" may not actually happen in 2015, but hey, what can you do? I promise I'm doing everything I can to make osu! the best it can be.

On the topic of osu!keyboards: after the initial rush, things have quietened down, so I am leaving them in stock for the foreseeable future. Thanks to everyone who has purchased them so far; make sure to give us your feedback on the build quality and usability!

I have a few blog posts in the works which should be a tad more interesting than my daily updates (talking about the new forum design, my experience converting from sublime text to atom etc.), but I'm still prioritising actually getting-things-done over blogging, so you'll have to wait a bit longer!