---
layout: post
title: 20150904
permalink: /post/128331961733/20150904
date: 2015-09-04 13:36:17 +0000
tumblr_url: http://pppy.tumblr.com/post/128331961733/20150904
---
We're making slow progress on troubleshooting the remaining compatibility problems with OpenGL and the new framework, so I'm taking a different approach as of today. Everything is now in place to push out a new 'stable40' branch. We will begin to move people over to it automatically (starting with users with the most powerful hardware) to allow us to troubleshoot issues with smaller groups before pushing it out to users with lower powered systems.

The current 'stable' release stream will also be maintained. Users which are automatically switched over **will** be able to return to the legacy stable release until we are 100% confident in the new release's compatibility and performance.

Planned release date for the first iteration is Monday next week (my time). Oh, and even if you don't meet the system requirements, you will also have the option to manually switch over to 'stable40'. All about giving the user choice and ensuring everyone always has a playable game through this period of migration.

Released two new [large](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/45) [bounties](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/37) today. Hoping to see more of you guys taking these up! I see it as a complete win-win situation for everyone involved, and really want to push forward with this approach to development!

Best of weekends to you all.