---
layout: post
title: 20151014
permalink: /post/131161543913/20151014
date: 2015-10-14 16:27:27 +0000
tumblr_url: http://pppy.tumblr.com/post/131161543913/20151014
---
* Fixed spinners being positioned incorrectly at 5:4 resolutions (who the hell uses these, anyway?)
* Finally got automatic rollback working for users which get errors on startup after switching to cutting-edge. This will help when we do a stable release, to allow users to return to a working state without the inconvenience of reinstalling/repairing manually.
* Added a banner to give more visibility to the new forum design. Apart from the features that are missing, I really feel it's a better user experience than the existing one, so getting more users to test it out is win-win. Make sure to report any bugs at the [github issue tracker](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues) (or fix them yourself!!).
* Improved exception handling on background threads. There were a few cases where the user would see default exception handler dialog boxes, but these are no more. Pippi will take care of your errors no matter where they happen, from now on!
* Continued battling with Wine and Wineskin to create a working OS X release. Hopefully I'll have something ready for tomorrow. It won't be the native release you're hoping for, but at least it will run on El Capitan in the mean-time.
* osu!keyboards experienced a minor delay (3 days or so) but should still be shipping out of China this week. Which means we should receive them next week (and start selling them at that point). Thank you all for your patience; I'm sure you understand just how much is involved in keeping a game and a store and everything else running at the same time. And attempting to keep people happy.