---
published: false
---

Hello! We've now exceeded one month since my last post. I've had this post in a draft status for quite some time, unable to post it because not everything had come together yet. Also been working across the board to catch up on a heap of stuff. Rather than just focus on lazer, let's take a moment to cover everything that's happened in this time.

# Anime Expo 2017

This experience was absolutely amazing. Being able to meet people face-to-face – especially many which I have been dealing with on a regular basis – was the best thing I took away from the event. There's so much to cover from this event alone, but here's a few things summarised:

- Going forward I'm going to continue my efforts to do some kind of "official" meet-up once a year in different places around the world.
- We have a *heap* of awesome video footage, which will be edited down into a digestible format once I find the spare time.
- Some serious discussions were had, resulting in some changes to how I run things going forward (in the best interest of the community). Look forward to a few new projects surfacing before the end of the year that should really help bring the community even closer together than before.

# osu!bancho

## multiplayer commands for all

We've released the ability for *any user* to use the previously exclusive multiplayer room commands. This allows very fine control over rooms in ways that were previously not possible. It is especially useful to people running tournaments, but can also be used by room owners in a host-rotation scenario where the owner can now retain control even after giving away host. Check out the full [documentation reference](https://osu.ppy.sh/help/wiki/osu!tourney#referee-commands-optional) to learn more.

## online state tracking

Web profiles will now (finally!) show up-to-date "last online" times as long as the user is connected to bancho. Previously, it would only be updated when a user visited the website. Note that right now even AFK users are considered "online", but we may look at making this smarter going forward.

##osu!lazer

So, it's been two builds since the last time I made a post. Forgive me if I skip over anything, but there's a lot to touch on so let's get started! If you're more of the hands-on type, you can go and check out [v2017.717.0](https://github.com/ppy/osu/releases/tag/v2017.717.0) right now, with an insane number of additions, improvements and bug fixes.

## Main menu visualiser

## New UI sound effects

This is still much of a WIP, so you'll still see some changes and additions going forward.