---
layout: post
title: '20150825'
date: '2015-08-25T23:15:17+09:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://pppy.tumblr.com/post/127561306583/20150825
---
If you were following my tweets, you will know that I am taking a stand to increase the transparency of the ranking process. It’s one of those areas of osu! that I used to spend a heap of time managing but have since delegated. When you delegate, you tend to lose control and eventually lose track of what is going on. This may mean that the goals of those in charge reach a point where they no longer align with your original intentions.

I intend to bring things back in line with my ultimate goal of keeping osu! as transparent as possible. I also hope to improve the overall process gradually in the direction of making it more enjoyable for everyone involved. Mappers and modders alike need to be enjoying themselves the whole way. At the moment, it would seem both parties are relatively neutral or even unhappy at how things work, so it’s definitely time for some change.

I’ll try not to step on too many toes in the process and also try to make changes as soon as possible, but while I am giving this more priority, I still have a metric tonne of other things that need immediate attention, so delays may happen. Rest assured I am aware that issues exist and I will do my best to resolve them.

For those living under a box, please continue to do so. You’re probably enjoying yourselves more than anyone who is following this drama along :).

p.s. Once I’ve figured out exactly how I will proceed with the changes, I will do a more detailed write-up post on what is planned.
