---
layout: post
title: 20150612 /answers/
permalink: /post/121343692948/20150612-answers
date: 2015-06-12 11:17:33 +0000
tumblr_url: http://pppy.tumblr.com/post/121343692948/20150612-answers
---
I've decided to make every friday a Q&A day. I receive quite a few questions via email, and many of them get repeated over and over again. Seems better to get them out there in the public so I can just link people to a post rather than writing up answers for them each time. This week's questions are from Avishay.

**Hey Peppy!**

**First of all, I want to thank you for writing those blog posts, I (and most likely more people) really enjoy reading them daily. So, before I continue on with the questions, I'll quickly introduce myself. My name is Avishay, 17 years old, I play / edit maps on osu almost daily, nothing too special. You seem like an interesting & successful person and I want to ask you some stuff, I hope you don't mind:**

**How knowledgeable were you when you started working on osu? Knowledgeable of programming, software and such?**

When I started work on osu!, I had been working as a software engineer for a couple of years (Java / classic asp / ms sql server). I studied computer science at university, but I can't say that really taught me too much. Most of my knowledge came from personal projects over the years. From writing text-based games and programs in BASIC back on a Commodore 64 when I was 4-7, to using Klik & Play and The Games Factory during primary school to make slightly more graphical games. Also made a good number of Nintendo game fan sites back in primary school; some of the first you could find on the small internet that existed back them.

I spent a good portion of my high school life working with databases, hacking around with stuff, building PCs both for myself and as a private business, running events involving large network setups, designing dynamic webpages for local businesses using Frontpage/Dreamweaver (they were pretty rare back then!). Ran arguably the [biggest Windows XP resources site](http://web.archive.org/web/20011202115409/xp.xyu.ca/) and forums out there during the year leading up to its release (design is a bit broken in the link).

During the later years of high school and the beginning of university, I ran several Ragnarok Online sites/systems (anonymously) that were integral to the whole game community. One still exists to this day (I passed it over to a good friend). I also played **far** too much of that game, but learnt the Japanese language while doing so - arguably not a complete waste of time!

**Did you have any previous projects that helped you to develop osu? Or did you learn most of what was needed while developing / starting to develop it?**

I'd argue that everything I'd done before osu! helped in some way. Running a game like osu! single-handedly requires a vastly broad range of knowledge. Software, hardware, networking, databases, front-end design... you name it. I strive to be able to potentially do everything myself. If I can't do something, I will sure as hell learn how to. The positive outcome of this is that if I am disappointed with someone else's working (or they are slacking off) I am able to fill in myself.

**Any tips you'd give to younger self when you just started with the project?**

Nope. I don't really think back like that. Forward is the only way :).

**Any tips you can give to me? I really love programming and a lot of computer-related stuff and I try to study by my own to increase my knowledge, most likely I won't be able to develop a successful game like yours by myself in the next few years, so I really want to see how your perspective changed, from back then, when you just started developing osu, compared to now.**

Do. Do anything. Make a start. Don't stop. Don't sleep. Find a source of infinite motivation.

> **Thank you for your time, Avishay.**

Most welcome, Avishay.

For future Friday posts, I will likely accept questions on twitter the day before. Please don't spam my email; I will announce it on twitter when it happens :).

Oh, I got the complete username change system working today. While it may look quite simple, this change allows us to have:

- Custom store product pages.
- Products with infinite stock.
- Products which don't rqeuire shipping.
- Products with custom user data (in this case the requested username).

<iframe width="720" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hL_dg8Suwfc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The start of much more to come. Make sure to check out flyte's latest post over on [osu!next](http://next.ppy.sh) if you haven't yet; it has some big reveals!